What is Selenium Tool?
What is Selenium Tool?:
selinium:


Use of Selenium Tool in Automation
Features of Selenium Tool
Selenium Components and Architecture
Selenium IDE"


selenium->
Selenium is an open source software tool which is used to automate 
web browser.it provided a features to user that can automate testing
 of website like online shopping,banking,social media web,flight booking.


java,python,ruby ,c#->programming language
selenium driver:
chrome,mozilla,safari,internet explorer.
id,name,ckass,css selector,xpath
actions=>click,scroll,type,drag and drop.
with selenium->cross browser testing,regression testing and functional.



Use of Selenium Tool in Automation:
Use of Selenium Tool in Automation:
selenium to automate task ->data extraction,website testing or form filling.
web based application:
Registration/signup->
selenium Api's ->jars
1.Ecommerce app:
purchasing process.
Add a product
search product
enter shipping infor 
make a payment 

2.Data Scraping:selenium can be used to extract the data like product info or customer reviews.


3.Cross browser testing:Website can behave differently on different browsers.it is very imp to ensure that our website should be tested well on all the platforms.

4.Form filling:you can use selenium to automate repeititive tasklike form filling or job applications.
1000 in my company->Registration 
useid ,pwd


Selenium Components and Architecture
Selenium IDE"


Features of Selenium Tool:
1.parallel test execution:
Selenium grid to execute test s in parallet environ. on multiple machine & browser.
2.Multi language:selenium supports multiple programming language like java,python ,ruby,c#.
3.Test Framework:you can integrate selenium with other testing framework testng,junit,nunit to create and execute test.
4.Record and playback:you can record your interaction with web application using selenium iDe and replay the same interaction later to verify that application is working as expected or not.


Selenium Grid ,Selenium IDE and Selenium Webdriver:
Selenium IDE:
It is browser plugin that allows you to record,write a selenium script so that you can use script for execution of testcases

selenium Grid:
it is toold that allows you to run your selenium test on multiple machines and browsers in parallel.
with this ,you can save your time to run multple test scripts.


selenium webdriver:
it is programming interface that allows you to write a code that can interact with web pages using language like java,c#,python.












